---
title: "Non Functional Requirements"
tags: ["mvp", "nfr", "quality"]
date: 2022-04-09T15:00:00+02:00
draft: false
---

In the [MVP]({{< ref "2021-11-06-mvp" >}}) post, we detailed the functional goal of the minimum viable product.
Now we will focus on the non-functional goals.

<!--more-->
The list of qualities is taken from [ISO 25010](https://iso25000.com/index.php/en/iso-25000-standards/iso-25010)

## Functional suitability
### Functional completness
Scope is limited in the initial release:
- start/stop recording from an Android phone
- display/delete recent tracks via a web ui

See [MVP]({{< ref "2021-11-06-mvp" >}}) for more details.

### Functional correctness
Depending on phone capabilities, we want to ensure at least:
- 5 meters accuracy for position (in the 3 dimensions)
- 1 second accuracy for timestamps
- 10% accuracy for time intervals (ex: 1 minute +/- 6 seconds)

This means the service should not degrade the acquired information to more than the above thresholds.

Regarding session deletion we must ensure that the user is notified of the deletion if and only if the session is fully removed from all medium.

### Functional appropriateness
N/A

## Performance efficiency
### Time behavior
API calls should take less than 100ms end-to-end when user is located in France.

### Resource utilization
Resource utilization is to be limited by cost. 
Recurring cost should be less than 20 euros per month. Any one shot cost to be split among the first 12 months.

### Capacity
System should be designed to handle up to 10 000 users, each one recording 3 sessions of 2 hours per week, with a maximum of 1000 simultaneous sessions.

## Compatibility
### Co-existence
System should be deployable on a public cloud provider.

### Interoperability
Only Android version 10 or above are to be supported for the mobile application.

Only latest stable Chrome and Firefox version is supported for the web site.

## Usability
### Appropriateness recognizability
Not a goal of the MVP which mainly focus on technical stack setup.

### Learnability
No specific training should be required to use the mobile application or the web site. They should both contain self explanatory content.

### Operability
System should be operated by a single operator, spending less than 2h per week.

### User error protection
Not a goal of the MVP which mainly focus on technical stack setup.

### User interface aesthetics
Not a goal of the MVP which mainly focus on technical stack setup.

### Accessibility
Not a goal of the MVP which mainly focus on technical stack setup.

## Reliability
### Maturity
Not a goal of the MVP which mainly focus on technical stack setup.

### Availability
Maximum outage: 1h per month.

### Fault tolerance
API server outage should be handled transparently in the mobile web app.

### Recoverability
In case of failure, a maximum of 1h of data can be lost.

## Security
### Confidentiality
No one else than the owner of a session should have access to the listing of positions.
Other users must have no-access.
Administrators/operators should have no-access to the positions, but can have access to session meta-data.

HTTPS will be used for all client/server interactions.

Data store will encrypt (at rest) the stored data.

### Integrity
Any non-authorized modification of the data should be detected.

### Non-repudiation
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Accountability
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Authenticity

Authentication and authorization mechanism will be handled via OpenID Connect (OIDC).

## Maintainability
### Modularity
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Reusability
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Analysability
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Modifiability
Automated gate keeping should be in place to allow continuous integration, delivery and deployment.

### Testability
Not a goal of the MVP.

## Portability
### Adaptability
Not a goal of the MVP.

### Installability
Continuous integration, delivery and deployment should be setup for all components.

### Replaceability
Not a goal of the MVP.
